1D (infinite) Traveling wave
--------------------



preliminary considerations for initialization  in .ods-sheet,

try constant mass particle initiation, i.e. adapt the spacing to the density
resulting from the wave-equations (see .ods-sheet)
and test if the mass calculation by smoothing within the simulation program 
results in constant mass!

--> that works quite good and results (together with periodoc boundary conditions) in a traveling wave,
    where the domain always has to be a multiple of the wavelength (of course, as otherwise not periodical)
    (initial condition generator used: <<createIC1DWave.cpp>>)

    run simulations for 1D Traveling wave with and without artificial viscosity:

    1. WITHOUT artificial viscosity
	test how amplitude evolves(by calculating damping factor exactly as for 1D oscillation),
	I am using the same post processing program as for 1D oscillation, but to be able to do so
	one has to ensure the following:
	- be sure that the simulation data output interval coincides exactly with the periodic time T
	  and also that there is outpt ONLY at T and its multiples (not in between)!!!
	  therefore: - determine sound speed and together with wavelength determine period T=lambda/c
		     - set timestep and output interval in a way that the above condition is respected
			( but attention: dt still has to be inferior to dt_max_admissibe)
		    for lambda=1, (p_0=rho=0=1) T=0.845154254 -->dt=0.000845.....
		    Problem: period is not exactly as theoretically calculated
		    WHY THAT??????
		    anyway, to be able to calculate damping: 
			    --> determine period T experimentally/manually: T~0.8673!!!

			      (seems pretty much the same as for the stationnary oscillation 
			      which is logical, as a stationnary oscillation is a superposition
			      of 2 waves traveling in oposite directions... (so it has same T!)
			      But why does this T not correspond to the theoretical value...???

			      ADDED LATER: yes, If I had tkaen the value of the oscillation 0.8668
			      (averaged T after 10 oscillations) the fit would even have been slightly
			      better (characterized by the simlatneous intersection of the x axis by both profiles)
			      for the comparison of after 10 periods 
			      (done later, figures with filenames <<...exacterPeriod...>> )
	results:
	  -for supLen=0.026, almost perfect conservation of amplitude: damping factor ~0 (weak oscillation around 0)
	  -however it seems that the wave changes its shape very slightly (seems to get larger/torn apart)): 
	      noticeable effect after 10 periods: see graphical visualization!
	      possible explanation:
		as already noticed for the stationnary wave (oscillation), the situation without artificial viscosity
		is very instable (not numerically but PHYSICALLY!). So, the slightest perturbations may not be damped 
		and may result in a variation of the original wave shape. Such a perturbation could be
		    - numerical inaccuracies
		    - inaccuracies at initialization (model for initialization does perhaps not correspond
		      to model which is implemented (perhaps initialization model was linearized) and wave
		      has to find its "equlilbrium" shape... this would perhaps also explain why theoretical
		      propagation speed is not (exactly) the theoretical one...)

      2. WITH Artificial viscosity (for compression)

		 Observations:
		   - a) periodical time T is the same as for simulation without art. visc. 
		   - b) there is damping which is not exactly constant ( Damping factor starts at ~0.54 
			and decreases to ~0.45
		   - c) the shape of the wave changes in a significant way (see figure (after 10 periods))!
		
		  Interpretation:
		   - ad a) this is an indication for the supLen being correctly chosen. 
		     For it was observed (for 1D oscillaton) that periodical time T changes with supLen
		     and T for this result is OK (as it is the same as for simulation without art. visc.)
		     --> choise of suplen must be correct!
		      ( unless physical soundspeed/propagation speed would change from inviscid->viscid which I 
			do not really think???)
		   - ad b) the non-constant damping could be related to the shape changes of the wave (see c))
		   - ad c) a closer look at the change of the wave-shape shows:
			    the  absolute value of the slope of the profiles (p, rho, u) gets smaller in 
			     zones where there is compression (dp/dx<0 for a wave traveling in positve x direction)
		    -->implication: perhaps it has to do with the fact that art. visc. is only turned on for compression
		    --> run another simulation with art. viscosity globally turned on!

      3. WITH global Artificial viscosity (for compression AND rarefaction )

		  - a) the wave keeps its shape (as presumed in 2.c), confirms that change of shape in 2.
			had to to with the fact that art.visc. was turned on for compressions exclusively)
  		  - b) damping now constant, but damping factor double as high (=~0.1112) as for 2.) (seems logical
			as art. visc now for whole domain and not only for half of it (as half of domain compression,
			other half expansion/rarefaction)
		  - b1) a closer look at the evolution of the damping factor shows: first it decreases slightly
			before it stabilizes around =~0.1112. This could be another indication for the fact, that
			the wave initialization is not completely exact and that the wave first has to find its
			"equilibrium position". (I have already speculated about this in 1.) )
				
		      
		
	      
	  
			     