 
Literature on compressible Couette:

1) Anderson: general description

2) Laminar flow analysis
 By David F. Rogers:
chaper 6.3 (p.199, google books): Analytical Solutions of the Compressible NS-Equations - Couette flow
 - describes some special cases with analytical solutions


prepare simulation setup:
----------------------------

Domain size: 1x1
boundary conditions in x-direction: periodic
boundary conditions in y-direction: isothermal no-slip walls (T_upper=1, T_bottom=0)

number of particles: 60x60 (=3600) (like for Taylor-Geen) ->dx=dy=0.01666
supportlength: (like for Taylor-Geen) supLen/dx=2.5


particle initialization:
------------------------




code modifications:
---------------------
law for eta(T) (->Southerland) (equation 15.3, Anderson, fundamentals of aerodynamics)
law for k(T)
law for cv(T) -> not yet implemented
->parameters for Sutherland law are read into material variable!


integrating dissipation in energy equation. ideas:
----------------------------------------

Monaghan gives a roadmap to obtain the viscous heating therm from the viscous force/acceleration
expression (Monaghan2005, section 8.2, before eq (8.13))
1: taking scalar product of viscous force term with v_ij
2:multiplying with m_a (if viscousl acceleration (and not force) is taken
3: summing over all a
(there is a *0.5 also added to the viscous term)

In Espanol we see a similar pattern if we compare the viscous heating term with the viscous force term:
its taking the scalar product with v_ij as well and *0.5.

Unit analysis: eq(31): viscous heating term has units [W]

But there is no summing over a, this is becaus the viscous heating term is expressed for the entropy equation,
(monaghan also shows no summing over a in his entropy equation!)
Might be that the sum_a in equation (8.13) of Monaghan is wrong, because he has the same equation without sum_a as (2.22) 
in MonaghanGingold1983 (a consideration of units also indicates that sum_a is too much)
in Monaghan eq (8.13) (or general in internal energy equation) it has to be added as [W/kg]

->divide expression for viscous heating from espanol by m_i!!!!

FIRST SIMULATION RUNS: CONSTANT VISCOSITY; NO HEAT CONDUCTION (domain=6*30 prtl, supLen=0.033333, summation density)
--> not exactly linear profile, steady state not reached after 5 seconds. Errors in the density profile close to the walls 
    after a certain simulation time:
    Reason for density-errors: the wall particles are not in the same (distorted) row as the regular particles, as
    the wall particles are copied and their position adapted according to the boundary condition. ->The rho-result
    obtained with summation density is therefore different close to the walls than in the rest of the domain.

     In the initial phase (at least until t=5) the density also diminuishes and then increases again in the whole domain,
     together with the propagation of the velocity throughout the domain, this is probably also attributable to 
      the particle movement (when the particles are initially moved out of their regular grid)

    FIRST TRY: bigger simulation time to try and find steady state
    -> even at t=20 steady state not reached yet! (velocity profile oscillates around the linear state...)
    might be that the oscillations are caused (at least partly) by the weird particle 
    properties (density, energy, ressure) of the closest particle to the walls???? 
      
    TRY integrating density to see if there is still density error (but as derivative of smoothing function probably
    even more sensitive to particle disorder, not sure, if it wil get better)!-> no difference (at least not better)

    TRY higher Re (eta=1000) to see if velocity profile developes correctly when particle movement neglectable
    --> it works just fine (velocity profile gets perfectly linear, without any oscillation, neither density, nor energy 
	of closest particle to wall assumes weird values => it really seeams to be a-particle disorder issue!!!
    (little issue in this higr Re simulation though: in the first 2-3 steps, the particles close to the moving wall
    do not all have exactly the same velocity value for same y-position...!(fixed, update of boundary conditions before
    output was not implemented in continuity density approach!)
    
    -> perhaps effect of particle disorder might reduce when using different methods for bilding up boundary conditions
      (perhaps different placement of particles (always ficed position), perhaps other velocity assignment (not mirrored but
      interpolated, see	BasaQuinlan, but I think that is not really the problem because error is not that much in 
      velocity but ruther in density, energy...???)
    


 