Remarks on the evaluation of the simulation results:

- the error of simulated data compared to the exact solution is measured by the L_1, L_2 and L_inf norm norm
  (the norm efinition is taken from Novak2007 (Journal of Computational Physics 226 (2007) 1271–1290).
  The errors are normalized with the following characteristic values 
  (rho_4 (initial density high pressure side), e_4 (initial internal energy h.p. side), u_2(=u_3) induced velocity by shock)

  
  Remark: in order for the cumulated error ||E||_1 to be independant of the spacial resolution it is divided
  by the number of particles N in the (considered) domain (in this case, the parameter A in the norm definition of Novak 2007 is:  A=const=1).
  (Others multiply it with dx which is based on the same principle,
  but as for the particular case of an SPH shock tube there is not necessarily a constant particle spacing, 
  a divison by N is preferred)
  

- furthermore the relative (NO, THE ABSOLUTE, as relative nonsens for 0) error for each variable (rho,p, u,e) is determined for each particle position 
  (as well as the average (NO, THE CUMMULATED) value over all particles)

- due to the smoothing effect, the shock resolution is always a bit problematic, Monaghan2005 therefore states
  that the after shock values are a better benachmark for the precission of the method than the actual shock resolution.
  To measure the precission of the after shock values, an additional L1 norm calculation is added for both the area
  behind rarefaction (to discontinuity) (area 3) and the area behind shock (to discontinuity) (area 2) separately. 
  
- for 2D PARTICLE DISTRIBUTION: the value that is finally compared to the exact 1D solution is the mean value of
  all particles having initially (@t=0) the same x position. For a 2D particle distribution some numerical noise
  is expected even if the particles are placed in a regular manner and which gets even considerably bigger with
  randomly placed particles.
  (according to Rasio/Shapiro 1991, Astrophysical Journal, 377: 559-80)
  In order to quantify this numerical noise, the variance of the values for each set of averaged particle 
  values is calculated

REMARK TO SENSITIVITY STUDY FOR RANDOM PARTICLE DISTRIBUTION

  


REMARK ON ARTIFICIAL HEATING:
a paper (Monaghan1992) stated that the little bump in the p-profile at the contact 
discontinuity is due to the artificial heating by the artificial viscosity (art. vis. also introduced in energy equation)
(this effect is also known as "wall-heating" (Journal of Computational Physics 212 (2006) 124–149))
Remedy can be found by introducing an artificial thermal conduction term in the thermal energy equation, which
is activated only for particles in compression (as art.vis.) and thus controls wall heating.
See "A shock-capturing SPH scheme based on adaptive kernel estimation" + references given in that paper
(Journal of Computational Physics 212 (2006) 124–149)
As for the further use of this program (porosities,...) we probably will not encounter any strong shocks any more,
this "trick" is not implemented in the code. Perhaps I should mention the artificial heat conduction term anyway
in the thesis, to show that the origin of this little error in p is known and the error therefore controllable.
